Outlook encrypt attachments sample (#217)
OfficeDev/PnP-OfficeAddins: Samples/outlook-encrypt-attachments/README.md

## Applies to
---
- Outlook on Windows
  - Outlook on the web
  - web browser

## Prerequisites
---
- Microsoft 365

> Note: If you do not have a Microsoft 365 subscription, you can get a [free developer sandbox](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program#Subscription) that provides a renewable 90-day Microsoft 365 E5 subscription for development purposes.

## Solution
---
| Solution                                                                                                                     | Author(s)    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Use Outlook Event-based activation to process item attachments, meeting request recipients and appointment date/time changes | Eric Legault |

## Version history
---
| Version | Date       | Comments        |
| ------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| 1.0     | 10-14-2021 | Initial release |

## Run the sample
---

> You can run this sample in Outlook on Windows or in a browser. The add-in web files are served from this repo on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this sample in Outlook on Windows or in a browser. The add-in web files are served from this repo on GitHub.
```

1. Download the **manifest.xml** file from this sample to a folder on your computer.
2. Sideload the add-in manifest in Outlook on the web or on Windows by following the manual instructions in the article [Sideload Outlook add-ins for testing](https://docs.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing).

### Try it out

> Once the add-in is loaded use the following steps to try out the functionality:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the add-in is loaded, use the following steps to try out the functionality.
```

#### Manage attachments

> 1. Create a new message or appointment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new message or appointment.
```

>     > You should see a notification at the top of the message that reads: **Open the task pane for details about running the Outlook event-based activation sample add-in.** | Open task pane | Dismiss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >A notification appears at the top of the message that reads **Open the task pane for details about running the Outlook event-based activation sample add-in**. | Open task pane | Dismiss
```

> 2. Add an attachment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add an attachment.
```

>     > You should see a notification at the top of the message that reads: **The '{file name} attachment has been encrypted and decrypted and added as reference attachments for your review** | Dismiss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > A notification appears at the top of the message that reads **The '{file name} attachment has been encrypted and decrypted and added as reference attachments for your review**. | Dismiss
```

#### Set up meetings

> 1. Create a new meeting request. In Outlook on the web, choose **More options** to expand the request and include all details (otherwise you won't see the notifications in the next steps.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new meeting request. In Outlook on the web, choose **More options** to expand the request and include all details. Otherwise, you won't see the notifications in the next steps.
```

> 2. Add a user as a required or optional attendee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add a user as a required or optional attendee.
```

>     > You should see a notification at the top of the message that reads: **Your appointment has 1 required and 0 optional attendees** | Dismiss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > A notification appears at the top of the message that reads **Your appointment has 1 required and 0 optional attendees**. | Dismiss
```

> 3. Add a distribution list as a required or optional attendee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add a distribution list as a required or optional attendee.
```

>     > You should see a notification at the top of the message that reads: **Warning! Your appointment has a distribution list! Make sure you have chosen the correct one!** | Dismiss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > A notification appears at the top of the message that reads **Warning! Your appointment has a distribution list! Make sure you have chosen the correct one!** | Dismiss
```

> 4. Change the start or end date or time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Change the start or end date or time.
```

>     > You should see a notification at the top of the message that reads: **Original date/time: Start = ##/##/#### #:##:## ##; End = ##/##/#### #:##:## ##** | Dismiss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > A notification appears at the top of the message that reads **Original date/time: Start = ##/##/#### #:##:## ##; End = ##/##/#### #:##:## ##**. | Dismiss
```

## Run the sample from localhost

> If you prefer to host the web server for the sample on your computer, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer to host the web server for the sample on your computer, follow these steps.
```

1. You need http-server to run the local web server. If you haven't installed this yet, run the following command.

    ```console
    npm install --global http-server
    ```

1. Use a tool such as openssl to generate a self-signed certificate that you can use for the web server. Move the cert.pem and key.pem files to the root folder for this sample.
1. From a command prompt, go to the root folder and run the following command.

    ```console
    http-server -S --cors . -p 3000
    ```

1. To reroute to localhost, run office-addin-https-reverse-proxy. If you haven't installed this, run the following command.

    ```console
    npm install --global office-addin-https-reverse-proxy 
    ```

    To reroute, run the following in another command prompt.

    ```console
    office-addin-https-reverse-proxy --url http://localhost:3000 
    ```

1. Sideload `manifest.xml` in Outlook on the web or on Windows by following the manual instructions in the article [Sideload Outlook add-ins for testing](https://docs.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/outlook/sideload-outlook-add-ins-for-testing).
1. [Try out the sample!](#try-it-out)

> ## Key parts of this sample

Reviewer: This seems unnecessary. Aren't all parts of the sample "key parts?" Consider removing this H2 and then elevating the following H3s to H2 which will add them to the right pane links.

```xml
<Runtime resid="WebViewRuntime.Url">
  <Override type="javascript" resid="JSRuntime.Url"/>
...
<bt:Url id="WebViewRuntime.Url" DefaultValue="https://elegault.github.io/PnP-OfficeAddins/Samples/outlook-encrypt-attachments/src/commands/commands.html" />
<bt:Url id="JSRuntime.Url" DefaultValue="https://elegault.github.io/PnP-OfficeAddins/Samples/outlook-encrypt-attachments/src/commands/commands.js" />
```

The add-in handles six events that are mapped to various functions:

```xml
<LaunchEvents>
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnNewMessageCompose" FunctionName="onMessageComposeHandler" /> 
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnNewAppointmentOrganizer" FunctionName="onAppointmentComposeHandler" />                 
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnAppointmentAttendeesChanged" FunctionName="onAppointmentAttendeesChangedHandler" />
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnAppointmentTimeChanged" FunctionName="onAppointmentTimeChangedHandler" /> 
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnMessageAttachmentsChanged" FunctionName="onMessageAttachmentsChangedHandler" /> 
  <LaunchEvent Type="OnAppointmentAttachmentsChanged" FunctionName="onAppointmentAttachmentsChangedHandler" />
</LaunchEvents>
```

> ### Handling the events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Handle events
```

> When the user creates a new message or appointment, Outlook will load the `commands.js` file specified in the manifest to handle the following events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the user creates a new message or appointment, Outlook loads the `commands.js` file specified in the manifest to handle the following events.
```

| Event | Handler |
| --- | ---|
| `OnNewMessageCompose` | onMessageComposeHandler |
| `OnNewAppointmentOrganizer` | onAppointmentComposeHandler |
| `OnAppointmentAttendeesChanged` | onAppointmentAttendeesChangedHandler |
| `OnAppointmentTimeChanged` | onAppointmentTimeChangedHandler |
| `OnMessageAttachmentsChanged` | *onItemAttachmentsChangedHandler |
| `OnAppointmentAttachmentsChanged` | *onItemAttachmentsChangedHandler |

> \* **NOTE**: The onItemAttachmentsChangedHandler function handles both OnMessageAttachmentsChanged and OnAppointmentAttachmentsChanged

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> The onItemAttachmentsChangedHandler function handles both OnMessageAttachmentsChanged and OnAppointmentAttachmentsChanged.
```
Do these need to be links?

> Outlook on the web will load the `commands.html` page, which then also loads `commands.js`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Outlook on the web loads the `commands.html` page, which then also loads `commands.js`.
```

### Task pane code

The task pane code is located under the `taskpane` folder of this project. The task pane HTML and JavaScript files only provide a UI with details about this sample.

> - `taskpane_appt_compose.html` is loaded when the user chooses the **Open task pane** link in the notification message or chooses the **Show task pane** button in the ribbon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `taskpane_appt_compose.html` is loaded when the user chooses the **Open task pane** link in the notification message or chooses **Show task pane** in the ribbon.
```

> - `taskpane_msg_compose.html` is loaded when the user chooses the **Open task pane** link in the notification message or chooses the **Show task pane** button in the ribbon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `taskpane_msg_compose.html` is loaded when the user chooses the **Open task pane** link in the notification message or chooses **Show task pane** in the ribbon.
```

## Known Issues

- At present, imports are not supported in the JavaScript file where you implement the handling for event-based activation. This means that external libraries (like the `crypto-js` library used in this sample) cannot be required directly in the `commands.js` file and must be loaded in `commands.html`. Since Outlook on Windows only loads `commands.js`, the `crypto-js` library cannot be loaded to perform the encryption of attachments. Only Outlook on the web can load supporting .html files with external library references. Therefore encryption is only implemented for that scenario.
- `console.dir()` methods cannot be used in event-based activation code on Outlook on Windows.
- `window.localStorage` cannot be used in event-based activation code on Outlook on Windows.

> - Choosing the **Open task pane** link in the InfoBar may not work in Outlook on the web. A fix has been deployed - see: https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/2125

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Choosing the **Open task pane** link in the InfoBar may not work in Outlook on the web. A fix has been deployed. For more information, see [Can't open task pane from link in Outlook NotificationMessages](https://github.com/OfficeDev/office-js/issues/2125) issue on GitHub.
```

- [Develop Office Add-ins with Visual Studio Code](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/develop/develop-add-ins-vscode)
- [Office Add-ins with Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/other/office)
- [Debugging with Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/debugging)
- [Node.js debugging in VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/nodejs/nodejs-debugging)
- [Office-Addin-Debugging](https://www.npmjs.com/package/office-addin-debugging)
- Getting recipients and attendees: `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OfficeDev/office-js-snippets/prod/samples/outlook/30-recipients-and-attendees/get-set-required-attendees-appointment-organizer.yaml`

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2021 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

> ## Disclaimer

Author: Done
